---
layout: post
title: "Website v1.0 released!"
banner:
category: programming
sub-category: webdev
tags: webdev github-page blog
assets: "post-assets/2019-03-11-blog-v1-0"
published: true
---

After a lot of blood, sweat and tears, I finally got the website to its minimum viable state: splash page, blog, and about-me section.

## Effort

Overall, I'm pretty pleased but I admit it was a total pain. I can see why many would choose to clone a jekyll theme and never ever touch the underlying html/css/js/jekyll-config. Just in this overhaul I made 93 git commits, wrote 5 layouts, 7 includes, and a whole lot of css. Overall I pumped out approx **34 hours** of screen time over the span of 10 days. Luckily Jekyll does make life a little easier; the layout formatting method is honestly genius, and using the inbuilt Sass preprocessor it's easier to keep track of where you put what classes, and with that one's sanity.

Would I recommend starting a jekyll website from scratch with no theme? No, never.

Would I do it all again? Yes, it was a hell of an experience, but I never learnt so much in so little time. In the words of a colleague:
> "Are you masochistic?"

Maybe, maybe...



## Pictures

Still awaiting screenshots to upload.


## Future plans

There's still a lot of features I have partially implemented which need finishing off: `categories`, `subcategory icons`, `major project pages`, `gallery layout`, etc...

Then there is also all the CSS fine tuning in margins, sizes, colours, and responsiveness tests...

**In addition to porting many years worth of projects into posts**

But its a start!

### Credit
Coming soon, its a pretty long list...
