---
layout: post
title: "It never ends - VM box, RAM and more Services"
image: "post-assets/2020-10-17-new-vmbox/banner.jpg"
category: technology
subcategory: electronics
tags:  microserver computer NAS docker network raspberrypi
assets: "post-assets/2020-10-17-new-vmbox"
published: true
---

As mentioned in the previous [network-related post]({% post_url 2020-10-04-new-nas-and-updates %}), I not only fixed the corner up but also bought a Lenovo Thinkcentre M72e Tiny. Its a tiny little device which I plan on using for experimenting with dockers, vm's, proxmox and all that jazz without affecting my NAS nor the Raspberry Pi. I also caught a reasonable deal for 8gb of RAM and decided to upgrade the NAS off the bat, especially seeing as the number of docker containers started increasing steadily!

## Tiny M72e
Browsing through ebay I saw one of these typical ultra small form factor business PCs (Thinkcentre Tiny, Dell Optiplex Micro, HP Prodesk Mini), I personally think they are fantastic, low power consumption and relatively good punch, but still relatively cheap especially compared to a similarly spec'd Intel NUC (although lately they've been increasing in price). This one in question was a Thinkcentre M72e Tiny, with a 3rd-gen i5 and 8gb of ram for ~£75. Sadly this was a slightly older generation with no USB3.0 and only one internal SATA port so a bit limited in expandability. Nonetheless, its not a particular issue when using the NAS as a storage device.

{% assign img_array = "2.jpg|5.jpg|6.jpg|1.jpg|back.jpg" | split: "|" %}

{% assign caption_array = "Its hard to explain how small they are, but really they are tiny|I quickly swapped out the drive for a cheapo SSD||This one came with an external DVD drive|Which isn't partucularly useful in my case but its now the only DVD drive in the whole house" | split: "|" %}

{% include img_slide.html assetsFolder=page.assets link=img_array caption=caption_array showindex=1 %}

## Proxmox and docker
As a dedicated virtualisation and test box, I installed [Proxmox](https://proxmox.com/en/), a Debian-based OS dedicated to virtualisation with ZFS, KVM virtualisation and LXC conterainers baked in.
Installation was a breeze, only needing to tweak partition sizes (for some reason the data storage was tiny) and the networking. Didn't use ZFS this time around, but maybe in a more powerful iteration?

Once that was up I set off to setup Docker within a dedicated Debian LXC container (yes, containers within containers). This was actually kinda rough to figure out until I found [this guide](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1EYAGl96dZY) which showed I needed to activate nesting. Of course I also instantly switched to a [discord based dark theme using a super easy script from Weilbyte](https://github.com/Weilbyte/PVEDiscordDark)(Highly recommended).

After that I've mostly been playing with installing linux and windows VMs, using network hosted virtual disks and just general tinkering. I'm still not entirely sure what I want to do with this, but as a playground which is separate from the more "mission-critical" NAS, it'll do. If Proxmox gives me any trouble I can always revert to a simple Debian install with virtualbox and docker, in the end Proxmox has multiple clustering and redundancy features which I just don't need.

This also reminds me at somepoint I'd like to grab 4 or 5 raspberrypi's and set them up as a Kubernetes cluster? That could be fun, but alas, time is in short supply at the moment.

{% include img.html assetsFolder=page.assets link='proxmox.png' caption="VM box in action" %}

## Downloading more RAM
More docker containers means more RAM consumed, and the paltry 2gb in the NAS was going to disappear quickly if I kept at my plans of adding various plex-related services, reverse proxies and what not. So I kept my eye out on RAM prices and when Prime day came around snagged a solid deal for 8gb, 1866Mhz RAM, HX318LS11IB (Note, I think the NAS only goes up to 1600Mhz). Upgrading was simple, barely an inconvenience, and great test to see what would break when I took it offline for a second (result: surprisingly nothing)  .

{% assign img_array = "ram1.jpg|ram-install.png" | split: "|" %}

{% assign caption_array = "Installing just meant taking off the drives and front panel and fiddling around a bit|Look at all that spare memory!" | split: "|" %}

{% include img_slide.html assetsFolder=page.assets link=img_array caption=caption_array showindex=2 %}


## Heimdall and Tautulli
At this point, I now had three instances of portainer and a dozen different services all connected to various ports in various IPs in the network, and whilst that could be managed by bookmarking... I decided to try out [Heimdall](https://heimdall.site/). After a bit of configuration, Heimdall becomes a one stop shop for all the various services in your network in a simple landing page. Some of those services like Tautulli (also recently added for Plex-stats) and Pi-hole provide more rich interface with some details on performance or status. Long story short, it works great! Highly recommended.

{% include img.html assetsFolder=page.assets link='heimdall.png' caption="New landing page for the network" %}


## Conclusion
Theres a lot more 'services' which I want to add to the network such as Graphana and InfluxDB (seems to be all the rage in homelabs at the moment), VPN, Ombi, Hass.io, let's encrypt + reverse proxy, as well as start moving my various life and energy tracking excels into a more robust database such as mysql. In addition, there's still a LOT of work regarding backing up data and how the NAS-local storage interactions will work across my desktop/laptop, but I'll leave those for another weekend!

## Credit and Further links
- [Weilbyte's dark Proxmox theme](https://github.com/Weilbyte/PVEDiscordDark)
- [Heimdall - Landing page for your network](https://heimdall.site/)
- [Tautulli - Plex statistics and play time](https://tautulli.com/)
- [Proxmox - Virtualisation Hypervisor](https://proxmox.com/en/)
